---
layout: post
title: "Week Six"
date: 2026-03-22
tags: [life]
---

Another week has been and gone and we're now at 27.7% of my parental leave
gone. It's certainly not lots but...well, it's not none either. It's worth
having a progress bar for 27.7%. Nearly 30%. Basically a third. Comfortably on
the way to half. More than a quarter.<!--more-->

## Oxygen Trampoline Park

Every Thursday, my four-year-old is off nursery and we tend to do something
fun that she likes. This week, we went for a McDonald's breakfast followed by
90 minutes trampolining/climbing/sliding at Oxygen Trampoline Park. It's pretty
exhausting if you decide to bounce along with them, but she had a great time.
We played hide-and-seek in the ball pool, chased her cuddly unicorn down the
inflatable slide, and did star jumps on the trampolines. What more could you
want from a random Thursday?

## Swimming

Monday night is swimming and I took the eldest two this time. We've managed to
get them a lesson at the same place at the same time which is a bit of a win.
The eldest is OK with his lessons but would rather not do them. The middle
child thinks they're the best thing that have ever happened and she loves
splashing about.

Showering them afterwards made me regret everything, and I angrily asked my
wife how the hell she'd managed to do this with a baby strapped to her (as she
did when I was in Oxford). Fair play wife. Fair play.

## Gym

I managed to get to the gym three times last week, which I'm generally pretty
happy with. At the behest of Claude, I've switched to a slightly lighter weight
but more intense work out. No more 3 sets of 5 reps, and lots more 4 sets of 8
reps. I've not injured myself yet, or come down with a diverticulitis flare-up,
so all-in-all I'm pretty happy with things.

I managed to go to the gym 7 times in February, and that included a DV flare-up
and a week in Edinburgh. I'm hoping to get to at least 7 times in March too.

## Home Help

In the space of two days, we had our cleaner, gardener and a handyman come
round and I was (yet again) reminded of how much I value hiring home help. I
pay a relatively small amount of money and get a nicer house/garden. That's
just money well spent as far as I'm concerned.

## Village Walks

I rediscovered the front-facing baby carrier and spent a fair amount of time
walking around with the 8-month-old strapped to me. He loves being outside and
is now stupidly curious. Unfortunately, he's at the point where these things
manifest as him being furious about being inside a lot of the time, and fucking
shit up anytime he can reach anything. All the same, we've spent a lot of time
hanging out and I'm beginning to think that he smiles when he sees me and looks
out for me as a source of excitement.

There's a brief window where daddy becomes the favourite, and you've got to
wallow in it when it happens because for about 17.8 of the other 18
years...mummy is the favourite. If I'm approaching that brief window now, I'm
going to have to savour it!

## Academic Work

I'm writing a paper at the moment and have spent pretty much all my free time
on it. It's fairly niche and is unlikely to set the world on fire, but I want
it to be good. Really good. And so I'm spending a lot of time trying to get it
into tip-top shape. The gap between doing a bit of analysis and writing it up
for a company, and writing an academic paper, is not a gap. It's a gulf. A
chasm. Even a good analysis...one that you really pour your heart and soul
into...it's nothing like putting together a paper.

## Conclusion

A relatively quiet week - but one in which I managed to spend time with my
kids, go to the gym plenty, and take my vitamins. Next week is probably going
to be another quietish one, with a nice trip to Aldwark Manor towards the end
of the week.
