---
layout: post
title: "Carvery and Gladiators"
date: 2026-02-01
tags: [life, UK, parenting]
---

At the risk of sounding asinine and like an 8-year-old's diary, I went to a
carvery today and it was nice. I ate beef and pork and gravy and it was yummy.
OK, maybe that is a little too much. Though in fairness...I did and it was.

<!--more--> 

## The Anchor Inn

We went to The Anchor Inn which is our local carvery, and also the unlikely
site of an unusual Geoguessr victory, where I happened to be dropped in a
neighbouring village next to the pub where I've eaten before. The food was
great, but just the very nature of a carvery is delightful.

Day drinking. Check. Mounds of meat. Check. Unlimited potatoes drowning in
gravy with a submerged yorkshire pudding. Check check check.

Whoever invented carveries was clearly onto a winner, and to run them in such a
nice old pub and to make them so affordable. Call it a win from me. There were
lots of multi-generational families eating there and I love that - I can see
that having a Sunday dinner together sounds wonderful, but hosting a Sunday
dinner sounds like a faff. So why not go to the local carvery and have somebody
else handle it?

Cost. Sure. We paid £67 for 4 meals, 2 drinks and 2 puddings. But I don't know.
I guess I'm fortunate that I'm in a position where I don't have to worry about
cost all that much. It feels weird to admit that, but I'm a seniorish person in
tech and have been for most of the last decade. If I can't buy my family a £67
carvery for four...well I must be doing something wrong.

## Children's Parties

I also visited the village hall in Whixley for a joint birthday party - a
mermaid disco with balloons, party games, and a chocolate fountain. It's
interesting watching the different personalities emerging at a kids birthday
party - my daughter struggled to warm up and get involved, and is clearly on
the shy side of things.

I don't know if you can teach 'anti-shyness' or if it's just something you've
got to watch them learn. She got there eventually, but it took some great work
from her friends and an authority figure encouraging her.

I got offered beer, wine and zero alcohol beer at the party, which I thought
was interesting. Beer and wine are always a nice offer at a kids party (though
if you're attending you're usually driving), but non-alcoholic beer really does
seem to 'be a thing' at the moment.

## Gladiators

My whole family watches gladiators and it's one of the highlights of the week -
watching the eldest two do the gladiator poses during the intro never fails to
make me smile. My oldest said today that he wants to be a gladiator when he
grows up (till now he's played his cards close to his chest and said that he'll
decide when he's older) and has begun training (lifting his bed up with his
sister on it).

It's pretty niche as far as careers go, but he's already begun the strength
training.

## Tomorrow

Tomorrow will officially be the first day of my parental leave. I'm still
loving Claude Code and have set up a domain for one of my side projects. It has
*shocked* me how easy it was to get everything up and running - I've had this
project idea for years and it's been a slow grind. With Claude it's taken 3
days to have a fully deployed website.

I'll actually be attempting to **not** spend the whole day coding and instead
to do family things. Wish me luck.
