---
layout: post
title: "Patience"
date: 2026-05-23
tags: [life]
---

_"All of humanity's problems stem from man's inability to sit quietly in a room
alone._" - Blaise Pascal <!--more-->

## Saving

I am, and have always been, a saver. As a teenager I'd famously *borrow* £5
from my parents to head to town for the day and come back and give them back
somewhere between £3 and £6 in return. As a student, I'd live on one meal a day
and bags of 40 frozen sausages for £2. Even as a new grad on a decent salary,
I'd make myself discount aisle liver salad because there was no way I was going
to pay £3 for a tasty lunch.

My salary has gone up and my family size has increased and with that has come a
lot less frugality and a lot more spending. But still - I think we probably
save something like 50 - 60% of our income every month, and have done for a
long time.

We live in a house that we love and is perfectly well suited to us. We have
holidays booked. We have a long-term savings strategy that lets us both retire
early.

And yet...

## Trying not to do something stupid

It'd be downright silly for us to upgrade our house. We've got a lovely big
house that works well for our family. It's old and has a big garden and it's in
a beautiful village where we can walk to our kid's schools. But we don't
**need** to save that much and wouldn't it be cool to have a bigger house? A
castle. 

It'd blow our mortgage payments up, force us to spend *even* more on house
maintenance, and cost us a fortune in stamp duty...but it's something to do.

There's probably some cool set of stocks/options that I could dabble in, and
maybe it'd go really well and I'd make more in a few months than I would in a
year otherwise.

But I **know** that's a mistake. I know that the answer is to just keep on
doing what we're already doing. Index funds. Regular investments. DCA. No
selling when it's down. Tax advantaged accounts. Simple. Boring.

## Conclusion

This is a note to future me. Stop looking for things to do. This is the grind.
It's boring and plain and basic and...exactly what I should be doing. Sit
quietly in the room and don't do anything.
