---
layout: post
title: "Week 14"
date: 2026-05-19
tags: [life]
---

Another week that raced by, another data project and another set of weekend
plans. Time flies when you're having fun...<!--more-->

## House Viewing

We went to see a big old house this week and it was *very* underwhelming. It
could have been beautiful but hadn't been maintained and the owners are
building a new house in the back garden. That means that the house needs a
bunch of work, and that the view is obscured and the drive is now shared. It
feels like they've basically vandalised the house, which I'm sure they
wouldn't agree with. It's been a well-loved family house that has become too
much to bother with now that the kids have flown the nest. Would be their
perspective.

Viewing it made me want to look after our house more - spend more time and
effort maintaining and throwing junk away and generally improving the house.
Our house is great, and I'd hate for somebody else to view our house and think
the things we thought of their house.

## SEND Provision in England

This week's data project was special needs provision in England, and the effect
it's having on council finances and schools. It's been a Claude Code production
and so I'm practicing operating on the limits of my understanding - the
analysis goes way quicker than my understanding and that's scary and new. The
things I've found are really interesting and I _think_ they're novel and
actionable...but I only _think_ that.

I'm tidying up the analysis and then I'm hoping to share it with journalists
and see what they think. Maybe it's all nonsense and I'll make a fool of
myself. But maybe I won't, and actually public data science in the era of LLMs
is about to explode into public consiousness. Hopefully that one.

## Weekend with the Lads

I spent the weekend at a friends house, eating, drinking and being extremely
merry. I've had the same group of friends since sixth form (17-18 years old)
and we get together once or twice a year, sometimes with families and sometimes
not. This was a non-family weekend and so we played drinking games and went for
a curry and a hike and pizza and caught up and generally had a great time.

These weekends are like therapy to me - I don't get to do much socialising
throughout the year and rely on bunching these things together with 48 hours of
intense socialisations with my best friends. It takes a bunch of effort from
all of us (I'm still hungover 2 days later) but for me, at least, it's worth
it.

## Conclusion

This week has felt busy, and next week will too. Our long-awaited holiday to
Tenerife is drawing in an there's a flurry of planning required. Transfers.
Luggage. Clothes. Looking forward to it...we don't have long left now!
